Add the release note for 1.23.0 (#4793)
line/armeria: site/src/pages/release-notes/1.23.0.mdx

---
date: 2023-03-xx
---

## 🌸 Highlights

- <type://DocService> now supports auto-completion for gRPC and Thrift services. #4516

>   - Check out this awesome demo video by [@Dogacel](https://github.com/dogacel) to learn more.

Reviewer: IIRC you don't need an explicit hyperlink for `@githubusername`.

  ctx.initiateConnectionShutdown();
  ```
- You can now use <type://ServiceErrorHandler> to configure per-service or per-virtual host level
  error handler. #3421 #4716
  ```java
  ServiceErrorHandler handler = (ctx, cause) -> {
    if (cause instanceof IllegalArgumentException) {
      return HttpResponse.of(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST);
    }
    // Return null to let the default error handler handle the exception.
    return null;
  };

  ServerBuilder sb = ...
  sb.route()
    .get("/foo")
    .errorHandler(handler)
    ...
    .build();
  ```
- You can now handle an HTTP/1 request with an absolute URI
  using <type://ServerBuilder#absoluteUriTransformer(Function)>. #4681 #4726
  ```java
  ServerBuilder sb = ...
  sb.absoluteUriTransformer(absoluteUri -> {
    // https://foo.com/bar -> /bar
    return absoluteUri.replaceFirst("^https://\\.foo\\.com/", "/");
    // Or store the original URI in a query and use it in the proxy service.
    // return "/proxy?uri=" + URLEncoder.encode(absoluteUri);
  });
  ```
- You can now listen to the result of DNS queries using <type://DnsQueryListener>. #4690 #4715
  ```java

>   DnsQueryListener listener = new DnsQueryListener() {
>     @Override
>     void onSuccess(...) {...}
>     @Override
>     public void onFailure(...) {
>         logger.warn("DNS query failed");
>     }
>   }
> 
>   DnsAddressEndpointGroup
>     .builder("foo.com")
>     .addDnsQueryListeners(listener)
>     .build();

Reviewer: How about using an anonymous class to make it more concise?
```suggestion
  DnsAddressEndpointGroup
    .builder("foo.com")
    .addDnsQueryListeners(new DnsQueryListener() {
      @Override
      void onSuccess(...) {...}
      @Override
      public void onFailure(...) {
        logger.warn("DNS query failed");
      }
    })
    .build();
```

  ```
- You can now create a <type://BlockingTaskExecutor> by wrapping a `ScheduledExecutorService`. #4760
  - Additionally, you can create context-aware or context-propagating `Executor` and
    <type://BlockingTaskExecutor>.
  ```java
  ScheduledExecutorService executorService = ...
  // Wrap a ScheduledExecutorService.
  BlockingTaskExecutor blockingTaskExecutor =
    BlockingTaskExecutor.of(executorService);

  RequestContext ctx = ...
  BlockingTaskExecutor blockingTaskExecutor = ...
  // context-aware
  ContextAwareBlockingTaskExecutor.of(context, executor);
  // context-propagating

>   RequestContext.makeContextPropagating(blockingTaskExecutor);

Author: This is a static method of `RequestContext` so we should use the class. 😄

  ```
- You can now use <type://StreamMessage#of(InputStream)> to convert an `InputStream`
  to <type://StreamMessage>. #3937 #4703
  ```java
  InputStream in = ...

>   // The input stream is divided by 8192 by default.

Reviewer: into chunks of 8192 bytes?

  StreamMessage<HttpData> stream = StreamMessage.of(in);
  ```
- You can now use <type://StreamMessage#streaming()> to create <type://StreamWriter> for writing
  streaming messages. #4253 #4696
  ```java
  StreamWriter<String> writer = StreamMessage.streaming();
  writer.write("foo");
  writer.write("bar");
  writer.close();

  // Subscribe to the writer.
  writer.subscribe(...);
  ```
- You can now generate a <type://RequestId> using the information of <type://RoutingContext>. #4362 #4691
  - Additionally, the request ID generator can be configured per-service or per-virtual host level. #4730 #4752
  ```java
  ServerBuilder sb = ...
  sb.requestIdGenerator((routingCtx, req) -> {

>     return RequestId.of(routingCtx.headers().getLong("requestId"));

Reviewer: How about using some real-world header such as the one from OpenTelemetry, Jaeger, etc?

  });
  ```

> - You can now collect metrics of open and closed connections
>   using <type://ConnectionPoolListener#metricCollecting(MeterRegistry)> on the client side. #4685 #4686

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now collect metrics of open and closed client connections
  using <type://ConnectionPoolListener#metricCollecting(MeterRegistry)> #4685 #4686
```

  ```java
  MeterRegistry registry = ...
  ConnectionPoolListener listener = ConnectionPoolListener.metricCollecting(registry);
  ClientFactory factory = ClientFactory.builder()
                                       .connectionPoolListener(listener)
                                       .build();
  ```
- <type://ClientRequestContext#authority()> can now be used to get the authority that will be sent to
  the server. #4697
  ```java
  ClientRequestContext ctx = ...
  String authority = ctx.authority();
  ```
- You can now use `ManagementServerProperties` to configure the management server when using
  Spring integration. #4560 #4574
  ```yaml
  armeria:
    ports:
      - port: 8080

>   # Use different port with a base path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Use a different port with a custom base path:
```

      web:
        exposure:
          include: health, loggers, prometheus
  ```
- You can now execute gRPC `ServerInterceptor` asynchronously in Kotlin
  using <type://CoroutineServerInterceptor>. #4669 #4724
  ```kotlin
  class AuthInterceptor : CoroutineServerInterceptor {
    private val authorizer = ...

    override suspend fun <ReqT, RespT> suspendedInterceptCall(
      call: ServerCall<ReqT, RespT>,
      headers: Metadata,
      next: ServerCallHandler<ReqT, RespT>
    ): ServerCall.Listener<ReqT> {
      val result = authorizer.authorize(ServiceRequestContext.current(), headers).await()
      if (result) {
        return next.startCall(call, headers)
      } else {
        throw AnticipatedException("Invalid access")
      }
    }
  }
  ```

## 📈 Improvements

- The debug page of <type://DocService> is now a pop-up for easier access. #4599
- You can now use `Connection: close` header to close a connection after receiving a response. #4131 #4454 #4471 #4531
- Armeria now exports the gauge metrics of <type://CommonPools#workerGroup()>. #4675 #4750
  - The metric names are:
    `armeria.netty.common.event.loop.workers` and `armeria.netty.common.event.loop.pending.tasks`

> - Armeria server now automatically routes HEAD requests to the GET method binding service on the same path. #4038 #4706

Author: I will choose the second one. Thanks! 😄

## 🛠️ Bug fixes

- The <type://RetryConfig> from <type://RetryConfigMapping> is retrieved only once for a retry session
  and reused. #4753 #4778
- Fixed a memory leak of the response body for HEAD requests. #4771

> - `#` character is now always percent-encoded in both path and query string. #4751 #4765

Reviewer: This only applies to server-side:
```suggestion
- A `#` character in a request path is now always percent-encoded on the server side. #4751 #4765
```

> - Self-suppression exception is not raised anymore in HTTP/1.1 encoder. #4749 #4758

Reviewer 2: I think it would be nice to wrap in code blocks to denote that this isn't plain english

```suggestion
- `Self-suppression` exception is not raised anymore in HTTP/1.1 encoder. #4749 #4758
```

> - `ConcurrentModificationException` is not raised anymore in the gRPC `DeferredListener`. #4729

Reviewer 2: Since `DeferredListener` is an internal class users don't likely know about

```suggestion
- `ConcurrentModificationException` is not raised anymore when using <type://AsyncServerInterceptor>. #4729
```

> - <type://RequestHeaders#path()> now returns percent-encoded value such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <type://RequestHeaders#path()> now returns percent-encoded value like
```

  <type://RequestContext#path()> does when used in an Armeria server. #4694 #4721
- <type://ByteStreamMessage#range(long,long)> of a path stream message now handles
  the overflow of the range correctly. #4705

> - The authority header is correctly set for retried requests. #4697

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The authority header is now correctly set for retried requests. #4697
```

- You no longer see <type://DnsTimeoutException> when an IPv6 network interface is enabled. #4695

> - No more deadlocks occur in Thrift versions 14 and below when loading <type://DocService>. #4688

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No more deadlocks occur in Thrift 0.14 or older when loading <type://DocService>. #4688
```

  using <type://CoroutineServerInterceptor>. #4669 #4724
  ```kotlin
  class AuthInterceptor : CoroutineServerInterceptor {
    private val authorizer = ...

    override suspend fun <ReqT, RespT> suspendedInterceptCall(
      call: ServerCall<ReqT, RespT>,
      headers: Metadata,
      next: ServerCallHandler<ReqT, RespT>
    ): ServerCall.Listener<ReqT> {
      val result = authorizer.authorize(ServiceRequestContext.current(), headers).await()
      if (result) {
        return next.startCall(call, headers)
      } else {
        throw AnticipatedException("Invalid access")
      }
    }
  }
  ```

## 📈 Improvements

- The debug page of <type://DocService> is now a pop-up for easier access. #4599
- You can now use `Connection: close` header to close a connection after receiving a response. #4131 #4454 #4471 #4531
- Armeria now exports the gauge metrics of <type://CommonPools#workerGroup()>. #4675 #4750
  - The metric names:
    - `armeria.netty.common.event.loop.workers`
    - `armeria.netty.common.event.loop.pending.tasks`
- If the mapping for a HEAD request is not found, the request is rerouted to the service bound to the
  GET method on the same path. #4038 #4706

> - Armeria client doesn't normalize consecutive slashes (e.g. `foo//bar`) in a client request path anymore. #4789

Reviewer 3: The meaning of the sentence does look like an improvement. What do you think of moving this item to the breaking changes section?

  <Tip>

    Please make sure that your server or service handles consecutive slashes properly before an upgrade.

>     Armeria server always cleans up such a path for you, so you don't need to worry.

Reviewer: How about:

> Please make sure your server or service is capable of handling consecutive slashes ("/") in request paths correctly prior to upgrading. In some instances, consecutive slashes may cause unexpected behavior or routing issues if not handled properly.
>
> Fortunately, Armeria server automatically cleans up and normalizes request paths containing consecutive slashes for you.

      if (result) {
        return next.startCall(call, headers)
      } else {
        throw AnticipatedException("Invalid access")
      }
    }
  }
  ```

## 📈 Improvements

- The debug page of <type://DocService> is now a pop-up for easier access. #4599
- You can now use `Connection: close` header to close a connection after sending or receiving a response.
  #4131 #4454 #4471 #4531
- Armeria now exports the gauge metrics of <type://CommonPools#workerGroup()>. #4675 #4750
  - The metric names:
    - `armeria.netty.common.event.loop.workers`
    - `armeria.netty.common.event.loop.pending.tasks`
- If the mapping for a HEAD request is not found, the request is rerouted to the service bound to the
  GET method on the same path. #4038 #4706

  <Tip>

    Please make sure your server or service is capable of handling consecutive slashes (`//`) in request paths
    correctly prior to upgrading. In some instances, consecutive slashes may cause unexpected behavior or
    routing issues if not handled properly.

    Fortunately, Armeria server automatically cleans up and normalizes request paths containing
    consecutive slashes for you.

>   </Tip>

Reviewer 3: Should this be moved below L242?

Author: Yes, it should. 😄
